DOCS-1335: Add queryable sensor data docs (#2197)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/services/data/_index.md

  {{< /alert >}}

## Data query

> Once you have synced data to the cloud, you can query certain types of data directly in the cloud using MQL, the [MongoDB query language](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/tutorial/query-documents/).

Reviewer: 'certain types of data' => 'tabular data'

I would specify that you can query it in MQL or SQL.

Synced data is stored in a MongoDB [Atlas Data Federation](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/data-federation/overview/) instance.

You can query both the captured data itself as well as its metadata (such as robot ID, organization ID, and [tags](/manage/data/label/#image-tags)).

In order to query data using MQL, you must have first [captured data](/services/data/configure-data-capture/) and [synced data](/services/data/configure-cloud-sync/) to the cloud.

> You must also configure a new database connection to the Viam cloud data store using the Viam CLI.

Reviewer: This will soon not be true — this flow will only be if you want to use a database connection to interfacing with MongoDB directly.

We have just added a [TabularDataBySQL and TabularDataByMQL](https://github.com/viamrobotics/api/blob/020985a15c113694e4589f725813b9077b6050b0/proto/viam/app/data/v1/data.proto#L189-L214) API which will also be available in the UI within the next few days. Scope doc was added last week, and implementation was just finished — added the link into https://viam.atlassian.net/browse/DOCS-1335. That will now be the intended main flow; since the user has already authenticated with Viam, they can now just use the Viam API to make an SQL/MQL query and get a list of results back. Deployment: https://pr-2919-appmain-bplesliplq-uc.a.run.app/data/query

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Use the data management service

To use the data management service, [add the data management service](/services/data/configure-data-capture/#add-the-data-management-service) to your smart machine.

Then, [configure data capture](/services/data/configure-data-capture/) and [configure cloud sync](/services/data/configure-cloud-sync/) as needed.

### Access, query, and export data

Once you have configured data capture and cloud sync, you can [view your data](/manage/data/view/) in the Viam app from the **Data** tab.

> If you have uploaded tabular data, such as sensor readings, you can [configure data query](/services/data/configure-data-query/) to be able to query directly against that data using common query languages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have uploaded tabular data, such as sensor readings, you can [configure data query](/services/data/configure-data-query/) to be able to query directly against that data using MQL or SQL.
```
